# Evaluating-the-Isolation-Forest-unsupervised-anomaly-detector-of-onEEGWaveLAD

## Abstract
This research focuses on validating onEEGwaveLAD, an adaptive denoising pipeline for artefact suppression. Built on the Isolation Forest (IF) algorithm, this work performs a grid search over IF's hyperparameters to identify the minimum value at which denoising quality degrades.

## Description
Electroencephalographic signals are obtained by amplifying and recording the brain’s spontaneous biological potential using electrodes positioned on the scalp. While proven to detect changes in brain activity with high temporal resolution, such signals are contaminated by non-stationary and frequent artefacts. A plethora of noise reduction techniques have been developed, achieving remarkable performance. However, they often require multi-channel information and additional reference signals, are not fully automated, require human intervention and are mostly offline. With the popularity of Brain-Computer Interfaces and the application of Electroencephalography in daily activities and other ecological settings, there is an increasing need for robust, online, near-real-time denoising techniques that operate without additional reference signals, are fully automated, and do not require human supervision or multi-channel information. This research focuses on the validation of onEEGwaveLAD [1,2], a novel, fully automated, ONline, EEG wavelet-based Learning Adaptive Denoiser pipeline for artefact identification and reduction. In particular, one of its elements is the Isolation Forest algorithm, an unsupervised anomaly detector that works in n-dimensional spaces. Such an algorithm is used within onEEGwaveLAD to automatically identify anomalous Instantaneous Spectral Profiles (ISPs), which are assumed to correspond to artefacts in EEG data (e.g. blinks, muscle movements). This work is devoted to performing a grid search over the hyperparameters of the Isolation Forest and identifying the minimum value below which the denoising quality of onEEGwaveLAD degrades.
